Operator RNs 1.4.2.mdx (#2311)
TykTechnologies/tyk-docs: developer-support/release-notes/operator.mdx

---
title: "Tyk Operator Release Notes"
description: "Release notes documenting updates, enhancements, fixes and changes for Tyk Operator."
keywords: "Tyk Operator, Release notes, changelog"
sidebarTitle: "Tyk Operator"
---

**Licensed Protected Product**

**This page contains all release notes for Tyk Operator displayed in reverse chronological order**

## Support Lifetime
Only the most recent Tyk Operator release is supported. We recommend staying current to minimise exposure to security vulnerabilities from third party dependencies.

---

## 1.4 Release Notes

### 1.4.2 Release Notes

#### Release Date xx June 2026

#### Release Highlights

> In this release, we have fixed issues with the reliability of SecurityPolicy reconciliation under high load that could lead to infinite reconciliation loops, orphaned Dashboard policies, and inconsistent state between Kubernetes and Dashboard. The fix introduces a new configuration option that enables tuning of Tyk Operator's HTTP connection pool for different deployments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this release, we have fixed issues with the reliability of SecurityPolicy reconciliation under high load that could lead to infinite reconciliation loops, orphaned Dashboard policies, and inconsistent state between Kubernetes and Dashboard. The fix also introduces new configuration options that enable tuning of Tyk Operator's HTTP connection pool for different deployments.
```

Feel free to ignore my suggestions, but my point is that we introduced more than one configuration parameter.
By default, the operator's HTTP client works as is; however, its now open for tuning.

For a comprehensive list of changes, please refer to the detailed [changelog](#Changelog-v1.4.2) below.

#### Breaking Changes
This release has no breaking changes.

#### Dependencies
##### 3rd Party Dependencies & Tools

| Third Party Dependency                                     | Tested Versions        | Compatible Versions    | Comments | 
| :--------------------------------------------------------- | :--------------------- | :--------------------- | :------- | 

> | [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io)                        | 1.28.x to 1.32.x       | 1.19.x to 1.32.x       |          | 

Reviewer: I tested my changes in 1.35 of k8s, and I assume QA team tested the release against newer versions of k8s.
we need to get an input from QA team to have the exact list of versions

Given the time difference between your upgrade and the release of this version, we recommend customers verify the ongoing support of third-party dependencies they install, as their status may have changed since the release.

#### Deprecations
There are no deprecations in this release.

#### Upgrade instructions

Go to the [Upgrading Tyk Operator](/tyk-stack/tyk-operator/installing-tyk-operator) section for detailed upgrade instructions.

#### Downloads
- [Docker image v1.4.2](https://hub.docker.com/r/tykio/tyk-operator/tags?page=&page_size=&ordering=&name=v1.4.2)
  - ```bash
    docker pull tykio/tyk-operator:v1.4.2
    ```
- Helm chart

>   - [tyk-charts v5.2.1](/developer-support/release-notes/helm-chart#5-2-release-notes)

Reviewer: just a note here. we must make sure that CRDs are up to date in https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk-charts/tree/main/tyk-operator-crds

#### Changelog
<a id="Changelog-v1.4.2" data-scroll-offset></a>

##### Fixed

<AccordionGroup>
<Accordion title='Fix SecurityPolicy reconciliation race conditions and connection leaks under load'>
Resolved a set of related issues that prevented `SecurityPolicy` resources from reconciling reliably, particularly under high load or when a policy referenced a large number of APIs.

Affected Operators could enter continuous reconciliation loops (most commonly with policies referencing nine or more APIs), leave a policy in the Dashboard after its Kubernetes resource had been deleted, repeatedly try to recreate a policy and fail with a "policy name already used" error, and steadily leak HTTP connections and file descriptors until the host exhausted its available ports.

SecurityPolicy reconciliation is now idempotent and converges reliably: Kubernetes and Dashboard state stay consistent across create, update, and delete, the Operator recovers cleanly from partial failures, and HTTP connections are reused correctly so file descriptors no longer accumulate under sustained load. The same reconciliation improvements have been applied to Tyk OAS API definition resources.
 

> This fix adds a new environment variable (`TYK_OPERATOR_HTTP_MAX_IDLE_CONNS_PER_HOST`) that enables users to tune the size of the Operator's HTTP connection pool to the Dashboard. This overrides the existing Go default setting and defaults to `100` connections. This can be tuned for the user's specific operating conditions: it should be increased for high-throughput clusters or reduced for resource-constrained environments.

Reviewer: The env notation `TYK_OPERATOR_HTTP_MAX_IDLE_CONNS_PER_HOST` needs to be updated.

We added the following envs to the operator:

```
TYK_OPERATOR_HTTPCLIENTCONFIG_MAXIDLECONNS          -> MaxIdleConns
TYK_OPERATOR_HTTPCLIENTCONFIG_MAXIDLECONNSPERHOST   -> MaxIdleConnsPerHost
TYK_OPERATOR_HTTPCLIENTCONFIG_MAXCONNSPERHOST       -> MaxConnsPerHost
TYK_OPERATOR_HTTPCLIENTCONFIG_IDLECONNTIMEOUT       -> IdleConnTimeout
TYK_OPERATOR_HTTPCLIENTCONFIG_TLSHANDSHAKETIMEOUT   -> TLSHandshakeTimeout
TYK_OPERATOR_HTTPCLIENTCONFIG_TIMEOUT               -> Timeout
```

The recommended approach is to use their default values unless the configuration is a must-have due to infrastructure constraints like fd exhaustion

## 1.4 Release Notes

### 1.4.2 Release Notes

> #### Release Date xx June 2026

Reviewer 2: TODO: Change this before merging
